---
title: FAQ 
date: 2016-06-24
keywords: [OES, N1/A3]
---

1.  Are there any no-fly zones for M100?

    Yes, please comply with local regulations. For more, please refer to http://flysafe.dji.com/

2.  Can M100 be used for aerial photography?

    Yes. M100 is compatible with third party ‘Gimbal and Camera’ and the DJI Zenmuse X series.

3.  What does Onboard Embedded System (OES) mean?

    In the context of DJI SDK documentation, Onboard Embedded System (OES) refers to any devices that can communicate with N1/A3 flight controller and supported by Onboard SDK.

4.  Which flight platforms are supported by the Onboard SDK?
   
    For now, only M100 (with N1 flight controller). The M600 and the dedicated A3 flight controller are in beta support.

5.  Which Onboard Embedded System (OES) are supported by M100?

    Refer to [Architecture Guide](../introduction/architecture-guide.html) for supported hardware and OS platform.

6.  Is an OES with an OS running needed in the development of Onboard SDK?

    Not necessarily but preferred. We recommend the combination with Ubuntu and ROS but even a simple STM32 MCU without an OS running on it works.

7.  What flight control data of M100 can I get via the Onboard SDK?

    Timestamp of the flight controller, Quaternion and Acceleration etc. Please refer to our Onboard SDK Github Page

8.  What are the communication ports between an OES and an N1 or A3 flight controller?

    For now, OES can only communicate with N1/A3 flight controller via the UART port.

9.  Does M100 support third party video capturing devices? Can I use the M100's built-in ‘Lightbridge’ functionality?

    Yes, M100 supports third party video capturing device. If you want to use the M100's built-in ‘Lightbridge’ functionality, all you need is the [N1 Video Encoder](http://store.dji.com/product/n1-video-encoder).

10. What is the data output frequency of N1/A3?

    The data output frequency of N1 can be set via the N1 assistant software with a range [0, 100Hz].

11. Suppose a sensor needs to transmit its sensing data back to the mobile device at a constant frequency. Can this functionality be supported by Onboard SDK?

    Yes. Refer to [Data Transparent Transmission](../introduction/data-transparent-transmission.html).

12. Are there any simulators provided for the development of M100?

    Yes. The [DJI Assistant 2](http://developer.dji.com/onboard-sdk/downloads/) has a built-in simulator that can be used.

13. Can I set the initial height of the ‘take off’ function manually?

    For now, no. The initial height is set to be about 1.2 meters.

14. What is the recommended transmission rate for N1 flight controller to receive external commands?

    50Hz.

15. For the development of Onboard SDK, can I use some bandwidth from the remote controller to control my own OES?

    Yes, developers can get the remote control value.

16. How many flight status are included via the Onboard SDK?

    For detail flight status and flight life cycle, please refer to [Open Protocol](../../appendix/index.html)

17. Raw data included in Flight Data is wrong in case of using simulator?

    Because raw data is generated by actual sensors on UAV, raw data will not be available in simulator. Please choose fusion data when you use DJI simulator.

18. Data will be lost when using wireless serial communication？

    Since most wireless serial model is half-duplex, data loss and obstruction happen when the autopilot and Onboard Embedded System (OES) send data to each other simultaneously. We recommend other means for communication, or dual wireless serial module are used to transmit and receive data.

19. Is encryption enforced?

    No, Encryption is optional. For more info, please refer to [Encryption part](../introduction/index.html#open-protocol-encryption) in the Open Protocol.
